[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So the next thing that we
wanna turn our attention to I've all ready
kind of alluded to this a little bit.
But I wanna talk to you about a few
extensions that have been added to
the object literal syntax to give us
the ability to do more declarative stuff
instead of the more manual imperative
stuff that we've been doing all along.
So we're just gonna talked about a variety
of quick little fixes or extensions,
if you will to the object
literal sometimes.
So it used to be the case that if I was
making an object and there was some, oops.
There was some variable of a name for
example, a and
I wanted to put that thing into object.
If I wanted to say a property of
the same name with the value of a,
I'd have to say it twice and
have say a: a, right?
We now what are called concise properties
which we've already seen which is in
the case where the property name and
the value it's coming from are the same.
We can just list it once.
So that's a concise property, okay?
Nice simple, clear win.
In addition to concise properties, we also
have what are called concise methods.
It use to be the case that if you
want to put a function inside of your
object literal, you have to say b; and
then put some function, okay?
Now, we have the ability to do
what's called a concise method.
Which is to take out the word function and
just put the name in the parentheses and
the curly braces, okay?
I use these a lot,
but there's something that you should
be aware of with concise methods.
You might be of the impression,
since there's a name there,
that the extension of
that would look like.
>> Kyle Simpson: Where there is
not only the property name, but
also the name of the function.
You might be of that assumption, and
unfortunately that
assumption is incorrect.
Because what actually by spec
happens is that b property points to
an anonymous function.
Now, it is an anonymous function
that is name inferencing.
So that is an anonymous function that will
show up in your stack trace called b, but
here is where this falls apart.
Let's say you have code like this.
Cuz I do that regularly, where I have
the property name and the variable name.
And why do I have that variable name?
Because there's some crazy condition
where I wanna do a recursive call on it.
Or it's an event handler and
I wanna unbind it, for whatever reason.
I need a self reference to the function
from inside of itself, okay?
So if I want a self reference to
the function from inside of itself.
This is nice and helpful as soon
as I come along and do this.
B is no longer a lexical identifier, so
now my code is gonna stop working, okay?
So the caveat,
it's a big caveat to concise methods is
they don't have a lexical self reference.
I think this is dumb.
I petition very hard for
them to not do that, but
there is a reason why they didn't do it.
And the reason is that it is possible for
you to make functions, for
you to make property names that
can't be lexical identifiers.
For example,
>> Kyle Simpson: That can't be
an identifier cuz it has a space in it,
and it is entirely legal for
you to do that.
So they ask rightly the question, what
should the lexical name be in that case?
And there is no good
answer to that question.
So because there are some cases where they
can't come up with a good lexical name,
they didn't ever put in a lexical name.
It's kind of a baby thrown out with
the bath water sort of scenario, okay?
So I find that kind of annoying that
these are lexically anonymous functions.
By the way, I gave you this admin
issue earlier, let me just remind you.
This is one of those cases where
you're gonna go over to Babel, and
you're gonna be like but see it makes
a function be there, you must be wrong.
No, this is a case where Babel
is deliberately skirting
around that part of the spec.
Because that is the quickest and easiest
way for them to do named functions.
Named functions are kinda hard to do if
you don't actually put a name on them, so
they take the easy short path.
If you try to do something like this,
look at what they do.
A much longer more complex path for
getting a named function that
preserves the correct behavior.
So don't come to me and complain that I
don't know what I'm talking about, I do.
I've studied it, trust me,
concise methods are lexically anonymous.
>> Speaker 2: Now if you make that
property name hello world like you had,
do they not bother to try with the name?
>> Kyle Simpson: They
came up with their own.
That's not what the specs says.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so concise
methods are cool, I use them a lot.
But in any case, where I need a lexical
self reference I don't use them
cuz they're lexically anonymous.
All right, concise methods,
concise properties nice easy wins.
Another case that is fairly
common actually probably more
common than those,
is where I have something like this.
And what I want, is I want the property
name hello to hold some value but
the property name is
currently in a variable.
So what I end up doing is saying,
obj[c] = to some value.
I have to do it outside of
an after the object literal.
I don't know if anybody else has been in
that case by probably five times a day,
I run into this case from trying to
put something an object literal.
And I can't [COUGH] cuz the property
name needs to be computed.
Well now we have computed property names.
>> Kyle Simpson: So you can put the
brackets syntax there inside of the object
literal.
Inside of the brackets, you can put
any valid JavaScript expression.
Here, I'm putting a variable.
We could do something
crazy like .toString.
I mean .toUpperCase for example,
any JavaScript expression
that you can think of.
Computer properties might be in
my top five favorite features.
[LAUGH] This cuz I don't want it to always
be on those under the I use it pretty
frequently.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so we have
concise properties, concise methods.
We have computed properties,
computed properties can also be used for
method names.
So we could say c+ fn, so now we have
hello fn is a concise method, for example.
>> Kyle Simpson: So now there's
a function called hello fn on our object.
>> Speaker 3: If you use
the concise methods,
is that equivalent to the full function
body versus like the arrow syntax?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, concise methods
are equivalent to function bodies.
There's a couple of differences nuance
stuff that we're not gonna talk about
today like the way the super keyword and
stuff like that behave.
But for virtually all cases,
the full function
is how concise method may be-
>> Speaker 3: Right, so
you still have to use the return keyword?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep, exactly, yes.
>> Speaker 4: Drew is asking,
why do they even bother naming it?
>> Kyle Simpson: Who's they?
Are you talking about Babel maybe?
>> Speaker 2: That was me, yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: Why is Babel naming it?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
in that example you had up.
>> Kyle Simpson: I have no idea,
but [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Use it for anything.
>> Kyle Simpson: Are you saying
why they're naming it here?
>> Speaker 2: Why they add the second.
>> Kyle Simpson: The reason they add it,
I know the answer to that question.
The reason they add that is,
>> Kyle Simpson: In this case, when
a call stack happens, we want for that b
function to be reported as the name b.
So that's why they add it.
What they're doing is they
are transpiling ES6 name inferencing.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] Yes?
>> Speaker 5: Question from me.
The last one on line nine,
if you wanted to make that,
say it was a recursive function.
How would you call that,
or could you call?
>> Kyle Simpson: For a computed property,
you'd have to recompute it on the inside.
So you could say something like
object of c+ fn like that.
>> Kyle Simpson: This is deprecated but
you could do arguments.callee.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not a good idea.
There's a proposal I think for
a future version of JavaScript where we're
gonna get these special meta properties,
and I think it's gonna be
something like function callee.
That will be able to use maybe in the
future that will be a self reference that
doesn't need a lexical name.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
For
the whether this is you have to recreate.
>> Kyle Simpson: What's that?
>> Speaker 5: You have to
recreate it, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: You have to recreate it,
or use arguments.
>> Speaker 5: It's not
a lexical reference,
it could be a different function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, yeah,
exactly, so like I said earlier,
if I have any inkling that I'm going to
need a self reference for any purpose.
I don't use concise methods.
We haven't talked about these today,
we will later today.
But there are what are called generators.
That's a special kind of function, and
you can specify a generator for example,
foo generators use the star symbol
to a function plus star
to signify themselves.
There is a concise form
of this which is weird,
if you use the concise method you
take that star and you move it here.
So this is a concise generator,
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we'll talk more about generators later.
And finally,
there is concise computed generators.
So we can,
>> Kyle Simpson: For example do this.
>> Kyle Simpson: So that is a computed
concise method that's also a generator,
computed concise generator.
There a few other object literal
extensions that I wanna get into.
Stuff like proto and
super and stuff like that.
Those are covered in my book,
if you wanna read more about those.
But these are the kind of the right
parts of places that you'll often find
yourself using to improve your
usage of object literals.
A little bit goes a long way in terms
of just constantly having to do the old
way versus this new way.
It saves a lot of saves a lot of work.
Anymore questions about
our object literals?
>> Speaker 6: If they're planning
on working in a syntax for
async functions into this kind of?
>> Kyle Simpson: There is,
>> Kyle Simpson: I think async functions
are just this, but
I have to check the spec on that.
I don't actually know.
That's not yet in the spec,
but it's almost there.